Now we are discussing another question in all this category.
That is, what is the purpose of call, apply or bind method?
And there are two related questions for this topic.
In a previous question, we discussed that.
What is that, this object?
Let's consider a scenario with an example.
I have a function called function test.
I want to display the value of this.
I'm just referring it.
There is no specific functionality I'm adding to this function.
It's just that I have an object called object.
And this object has, let's say, a member a where I'm seeing file.
Now what I want is that when I call this function, I just want to pass this object at the moment anyway.
Object is global, right?
So it doesn't matter whether I pass it as a parameter or not, but assume that this is somewhere else.
But right now I'm putting it for ease of understanding.
Now that object I'm passing here.
So the object I have passed is passed to this parameter.
My concern is that if I call this function, certainly it's going to display the window object because
it is written in the browser window and the function test is also directly in the browser.
I've learned that the value of this should be this object.
That means I want to assign the reference off object to this.
So in a way, what I want to do is I want to say this is equal to object.
So instead of window, let me first of all, run this.
If I run test function, it displays window.
Now.
I warned that it should bind to this object and not the window object, which is the global object.
So purpose of this function is at the moment I want to assign the object reference tool that this object.
Lecture on this and see what happens.
It says that invalid left hand side in assignment.
The reason is JavaScript doesn't allow you to assign any value to this object.
How will you change the context of this object in this case?
That's where the call supply and buying methods come in handy.
Let's first of all, begin with the call method.
The call method takes first argument as the object to be passed to this.
Then whatever parameters you want to pass, it's absolutely fine.
Let's say I have a few more parameters.
A call might be.
Now when I say call.
You don't even need to pass.
This will be the now we don't need this.
It's just a normal function.
Let's say this function is expecting two parameters.
So I'm going to write those two parameters here.
Maybe five, comma six.
Now when you are calling this function, actually, there are three parameters passed.
And the function here shows that it is expecting only two parameters.
This means when you say call, the first argument is always pass to this.
So when you call this, the first parameter is always passed to this.
That's why the syntax is like this that the first one is this argument and rest of the parameters like
argument one, two and so on, like a normal function.
Let's try this code and see what is the output.
As you can see now that when you try to display the value of this, it doesn't display window.
Instead, it displays the object.
Remember, the parameters we have here are I mean, fire is passed to eight and six is passed.
To be object is something which is automatically handled by JavaScript by the call method so that it
is assigned to this object.
So in short call is used to change the reference or context are in charge value of this object.
In case if you pass, let's say, instead of object.
If I pass five, comma, six right now, you know that parameter mismatch is not a problem in JavaScript.
So here what will happen.
Five will be passed to this, six will be passed to eight and nothing will be passed to be to b will
be undefined.
If I just try to display the value of both A and B, then you will realize that how it works.
You see, the value five is passed to a here because size based class is number.
So a number is displayed here it is six and B is undefined.
Let's go back to the object self.
So now we know that y call is used.
Apply is actually used for the very same thing.
Apply is also used for changing the reference of this object only.
But there is a difference in terms of parameter passing.
What Apply says is that you can pass only two parameters.
One is the this argument, and second is one add a which actually is passed to all the parameters you
have here.
What I mean to say is that object is anyway passed to this.
This one, ADI, is passed to this function where individual elements are assigned.
So if you have, let's say, three elements here, five, common six.
Common seven may be like this.
Right.
And if you have A, B and C.
So five, six and seven is passed to ABC respectively.
Here the important point is applied takes only two parameters.
First is the this argument, and second is one ad which is passed to this function as individual element.
So in a way it is getting the structure.
You can say that that's the only difference between call and apply.
The next method is bind.
Now again.
Bind is same.
It means bind allows you to change the value of this.
And the parameters are also similar.
There is no ad or anything like that.
Absolutely.
Same as call.
Let me remove this.
See?
So you can say bind and call are similar in terms of signature, but there is a difference.
Let me run the call so you will realize that if I run this here, you will see that there is no output.
The reason is that call must change the reference of this and it immediately calls the function that
is bind does change the reference, but it does not execute the function.
Instead it returns another function.
That is, it acts like a function expression.
So let's say for example, here I have maybe const function expression that is Effy.
So it is executed and the reference is returned in Effy.
So now if I run this, you'll see the output here.
So bind is very similar to call, but it doesn't call to function immediately.
Rather, it returns a function which you can later on call whenever you need it.
There are various other purposes of buying.
As we go on with more examples.
You will get a clear idea how and when we are using it.
But the basic purpose of call apply and bind is to change the reference of this.
And they differ in terms of parameters or maybe the execution.
Let's discuss the questions of this topic.
The first question is what's the difference between call, apply and bind?
So we have already discussed that call and apply basically takes different way of parameters and call
and bind is similar, but mine doesn't execute the function immediately.
Rather, it returns a function, expression or reference which can be called later on.
The second question is what will be the output of this call?
Or can you assign value to this object with assignment operator that is equal to?
We have already seen that it is not possible to assign any value to this object invalid left hand side
assignment.
That's what data displays.
So when you want to change the value of this, you have to use, call, apply or bind method.